---
id: synopsis
title: ETM/P Synopsis
sidebar_label: Synopsis
description: Build your next blockchain app on ETM/P.
keywords:
  - docs
  - ETM/P
---
![image](/img/whitepaper/etmpLogo.png)
We are in the age of Web3 and metaverse. Public blockchains such as
Ethereum are at the heart of the Web3 infrastructure. Good designs of
blockchains need to balance decentralization, security and scalability.
This is extremely challenging and known as the blockchain Trilemma. An
additional feature is composability, which is essential for the
expansion of DeFi and GameFi applications. However, the composability
(such as the DeFi Legos) brings additional, hard to quantify risks as
well as advantages. This is attested by the recent cascade of
liquidations on crypto assets, including the Terra-Luna system. In DeFi
systems, high leverage exacerbates volatility leads to sharp drops in
token prices and massive liquidations during market downturn, as we are
witnessing now. It is very timely to develop new kinds of blockchain
system which benefits from the existing technology and address the new
challenges and risks. Robustness is a top concern for the new public
blockchain system design.

We consider a new generation of blockchain as Turing-complete,
distributed state machine with built in consensus mechanism. It
registers in a temper proof way transactions, which are just transitions
between computational states. Computational resources are provided by,
used for, allocated among and paid by the participants in the system.

ETM (Eonothem) is a Delegated Proof of Stake consensus public
blockchain, adapted to high output scenario of Web3 applications and
efficient high frequency decentralized finance. With EVM compatible
structural design, smart contract can be easily and securely deployed in
the ETM/P system. This gives ETM high scalability and composability. The
consensus mechanism is based on the Byzantine fault tolerant consensus
(Istanbul) with enhanced features.
![image](/img/whitepaper/synopsis2.png)
Delegated Proof of Stake brings more efficiency in terms of operations
and computational resources. In each round, only 21 nodes are selected
to process and validate transactions. However, this may lead to a
reduction of decentralization and malicious coalition attacks on the
system. To address this problem, ETM/P uses a new permutation algorithm
based on chaos factor and VRP (verifiable random permutation) to
mitigate the risk of malicious nodes coalition and front running
attacks. These risks have been persistently troublesome to DeFi
infrastructures.

At the heart of the ETM/P economic model is sustainability. It is more
important than ever before, after the Luna/UST bank run, for economic
models to be robust, healthy and sustainable while still attractive to
users. The ETM/P economic model achieves these objectives by using
algorithmic game theory and feedback control mechanism to enforce a mild
inflationary monetary policy.

We are now at the stage of "Proterozoic": building up a complete
ecosystem of decentralized platforms.

We will be moving to Phanerozoic: building up ETM/P DAO (Decentralized
Autonomous Organization).
![image](/img/whitepaper/synopsis3.png)